---
title: "What is Jiffy?"
date: 2018-02-05T13:26:10-07:00
weight: 10
draft: true
---

### What does Jiffy do?

Jiffy is a model-based RESTful application services generator written in go.  It was developed as an experiment to offer an alternative avenue when developing native applications for SAP Hana. 

Jiffy allows a developer to generate a robust go-based application that treats the data persistence layer in a generic manner.  This allows the generated application to connect to number of different database systems (outlined below), without any code changes.

While this is not for everybody, it does reduce the mental cost of entry to developing and deploying appications on SAP Hana, as the backend application developer can focus on the application rather than Hana CDS and the Hana XS/XSA libs.  Generated applications are by no means only targeted at SAP Hana; Postgres, MySQL, MSSQL and SQLite are also supported.

### Why write in Go?

* Go has a strong standard library, thereby keeping dependencies on public packages to a minimum
* Go has great tooling
* Go offers true concurrency via lightweight threads known as goroutines
  * no blocking in the i/o layer during compute intensive tasks
  * no lost callbacks or broken promises
  * goroutines will use all available cores to handle incoming requests
* Go offers type-safety
* Go is a small language
* Go projects compile to a static single binary which simplifies deployments
* Go cross-compiles to virtually any platform and architecture; write and test on a chromebook - deploy to z/OS

### What does a Jiffy application provide out of the box?

Jiffy consumes simple JSON model-files and uses them to generate a working, secure and extensible application server codebase.  Generated applications need no additional coding to run, although we suggest that you may wish to implement some validations and do a bit of testing before you roll things out ;).

Here are some of the features that are automatically included in a generated Jiffy application:

* generated applications can be connected to Postgres, MSSQL, SAP Hana, SQLite or MariaDB
* no database specific code is compiled into the binary; an app can be pointed from SQLite to SAP Hana with no code changes
* login / authorization management via jwt
* built-in support for the creation of signing-keys for jwt (RS256, RS384, RS512, ES256, ES384, ES521)
* supports JWT's created by other SSO auth providers (RS256, RS384, RS512, ES256, ES384, ES521)
* bcrypt salt/pepper based authentication scheme where passwords are never stored in the db
* JSON configuration (model) file(s) for Entity, Index, Foreign-Key and Relationship definitions
* models support persistent and non-persistent fields
* generated apps create and alter database artifacts based on the model file (tables, indices, sequences etc.)
* supports single and composite index declarations via the model file
* built-in support for https
* built-in normalization and validation in the model-layer
* each entity's correspsonding service can be enabled and disabled on a per-app-server basis based on config
* generates a working set of CRUD-type RESTful services for each entity in the model file
* get-set type end-points support /$count, $limit=n, $offset=n, $orderby=field_name ($asc|$desc)
* supports and generates working end-points for hasOne, hasMany and belongsTo entity relationships
* generates static query end-points
* end-points are secured by way of scope inspection (jwt claims) in the route handler middleware
* end-point security is generated by default via a auths -> auth-groups -> user arrangement
* generates a comprehensive set of working tests (go test)
* generated code is easily extended either via direct editing, or through an extension-point concept in the model and controller-layers

### How does Jiffy interface to the underlying database?

Jiffy sits on top of a thin ORM that I wrote to talk to the SAP Hana in-memory db.  The ORM code is very simple, and can easily be extended to accomodate databases that have not been mentioned here.  

ORM's sound like a bad idea to a lot of people (me included).  If you look at the generated code and don't like what you see, the ORM handle exposes the standard go/sql and the awesome jmoiron/sqlx libraries to you directly.